Account creation section (#1723)
privacyguides/privacyguides.org: docs/basics/account-creation.en.md

---
title: "Account Creation"

---

Whenever you have to create a new account for a service you are required to read it's Terms of Service(ToS), choose an authentication method and, sometimes, give personal informations. These aspects will have an impact on your privacy and security.

## Terms of Service(ToS)

Terms of Service(ToS) are one of the most ignored aspect when creating a new account. They are the legal agreements in order to use the service and also include how your data will be used, often referred to as the **Privacy Policy**.

> These ToS documents are usually tedious to read and most of the time people just accept them without reading them. Right now not much can be done to avoid it and we advise to have a look at them, fortunately you can look at projects like [Terms of Service; Didn't Read](https://tosdr.org) to have a good overview on popular servicies.

Author: Ok, I'm going to rephrase it direct people on searching for  important keywords.

[Recommended email aliasing services](../email.md#email-aliasing-services){ .md-button }

### Single sign-on

!!! note
  
    We are discussing Single sign-on for personal use, not enterprise users.

Single sign-on(SSO) is an authentication method that allows you to register for a service without sharing much information, if any. Whenever you see something along the lines of "Sign-in with *provider name*" on a registration form it's SSO.

When you choose single sign-on in a website, it will prompt your SSO provider login page and after that your account will be connected. Your password won't be shared but some basic information will (you can review it during the login request). This process is needed every time you want to login to the same account.

The main advantages are:

- **Security**: no risk of being involved in a [data breach](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Data_breach) because the website does not store your credentials.
- **Ease of use**: multiple accounts are managed by a single login.

But there are disadvantages:

- **Privacy**: a single provider will know the services you use.

> - **Centralization**: if your SSO account gets compromised, so do all the services you connected to it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Centralization**: if your SSO account gets compromised or you aren't able to login to it, all other accounts connected to it are affected.

SSO can be especially useful in those situations where you could benefit from deeper integration between services. For example, one of those services may offer SSO for the others. Our recommendation is to limit SSO to only where you need it and protect the main account with [MFA](multi-factor-authentication.md).

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

All of your accounts that use SSO will be as secure as your SSO account. For example, if you want to secure an account with a hardware key but that service doesn't support hardware keys, you can secure your SSO account with a hardware key and now you essentially have hardware MFA on all your accounts. However, the pendulum swings both ways; if the security on your SSO account is lax, then all of your other accounts are at risk.

```

---
title: "Account Creation"
icon: 'material/account-plus'
---

> Many people create new accounts for services without thinking much about it, but this can lead to privacy issues down the line. It's very easy to make a new account, but it can be difficult or even impossible to delete it (and any personal information associated with it) at a later point. Every extra account can be compromised as well, which could lead to private data being exposed or actions being performed on your behalf that you don't want. This is why you should be very careful and deliberate when signing up for any new account, especially something that you don't necessarily need.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Often people create new accounts for services without thinking much about whether they need this product in their life or they're in a hurry and don't read the Privacy Policy. Later on they may become aware of the issues they previously overlooked, or the product changes owner and the policy changes entirely.

Every new service that you use does also have risk, (such as vulnerabilities, or being hacked) which is why we don't recommend storing valuable data on anything but the most mature and battle-tested products, that usually means service which provide E2EE and have undergone a cryptographic audit.

Accounts to various services can also be difficult to delete. Sometimes [overwriting data](./basics/account-deletion.md#overwriting-account-information) associated with an account can be possible, but in other cases the account will keep an entire history of changes.
```

> ## Terms of Service & Privacy Policy
> 
> Terms of Service(ToS) and Privacy Policy are two of the most ignored aspects of creating a new account. The ToS are the rules that you agree to follow when using the service. Breaking them could result in account termination or other action, so it's important to be familiar with them. The Privacy Policy is how the service will use your data. Sometimes critical privacy issues can be hidden here, so you should take the time to read it. A company or organization might not be legally obligated to follow everything in it; you should check your local laws and see what they legally must do to protect your data, or what data they might be legally required to collect.
> 
> 
> Before accepting them try to look for keywords like data collection, data analysis, cookies, ads or 3rd-party services. Sometimes you will be able to opt-out from data collection or sharing but it is best to choose a service that respects your privacy from the start.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Terms of Service & Privacy Policy

Terms of Service(ToS) and Privacy Policy are two of the most ignored aspects of creating a new account. The ToS are the rules that you agree to follow when using the service. Breaking them could result in account termination or other action, so it's important to be familiar with them. The Privacy Policy is how the service will use your data. Sometimes critical privacy issues can be hidden here, so you should take the time to read it. A company or organization might not be legally obligated to follow everything in it; you should check your local laws and see what they legally must do to protect your data, or what data they might be legally required to collect.

Before accepting them try to look for keywords like data collection, data analysis, cookies, ads or 3rd-party services. Sometimes you will be able to opt-out from data collection or sharing but it is best to choose a service that respects your privacy from the start.
```

## Authentication methods

There are usually multiple ways to sign up for an account, each with their own benefits and drawbacks.

### Email and password

The classic way to create a new account is by email and password. When choosing this method, you should use a password manager and follow [best practices](passwords-overview.md) regarding passwords.

!!! tip

    You can use your password manager to organize other authentication methods too! Just add the new entry and fill the appropriate fields, you can add notes for things like security questions or a backup key.

You will be responsible for managing your login credentials. For added security, you can set up [MFA](multi-factor-authentication.md) on your accounts.

[Recommended password managers](../passwords.md){ .md-button }

> #### Email aliases
> 
> Sometimes when you may not want to use your real email address for a service you have the option to use an alias. We described them in more detail on our email services recommendation page. Essentially, alias services allow you to generate new email addresses that forward all emails to your main address. This can help prevent tracking across services and help you manage the torrent of marketing emails that sometimes comes with the sign up process.
> 
> 
> [Recommended email aliasing services](../email.md#email-aliasing-services){ .md-button }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Email aliases

Sometimes when you may not want to use your real email address for a service you have the option to use an alias. We described them in more detail on our email services recommendation page. Essentially, alias services allow you to generate new email addresses that forward all emails to your main address. This can help prevent tracking across services and help you manage the torrent of marketing emails that sometimes comes with the sign up process.

[Recommended email aliasing services](../email.md#email-aliasing-services){ .md-button }
```

### Single sign-on

!!! note
  
    We are discussing Single sign-on for personal use, not enterprise users.

> Single sign-on(SSO) is an authentication method that allows you to register for a service without sharing much information, if any. Whenever you see on a registration form "Sign-in with *provider name*" it's SSO.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Single sign-on(SSO) is an authentication method that allows you to register for a service without sharing much information, if any. Whenever you see something along the lines of "Sign-in with *provider name*" on a registration form it's SSO.
```

When you choose single sign-on in a website, it will prompt your SSO provider login page and after that your account will be connected. Your password won't be shared but some basic information will (you can review it during the login request). This process is needed every time you want to login to the same account.

The main advantages are:

> - **Security**: no risk of beign involved in a [data breach](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Data_breach) because the website does not store your credentials;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Security**: no risk of being involved in a [data breach](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Data_breach) because the website does not store your credentials.
```

- **Ease of use**: multiple accounts are managed by a single login.

But there are disadvantages:

> - **Privacy**: a single provider will know the services you use;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Privacy**: a single provider will know the services you use.
```

> - **Centralization**: if your SSO account get compromised so do all the services you connected to it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Centralization**: if your SSO account gets compromised, so do all the services you connected to it.
```

SSO can be especially useful in those situations where you could benefit from deeper integration between services. For example, one of those services may offer SSO for the others. Our recommendation is to limit SSO to only where you need it and protect the main account with [MFA](multi-factor-authentication.md).

### Phone number

> Most of the time your phone number is an available option by services that rely on communications, like messagging apps. Other authentication methods would be preferred, if available, since it's harder to protect your identity or avoid [spam](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Spamming) with a phone number, especially in case of a [data breach](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Data_breach).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sometimes, services will request your phone number during signup. A phone number is highly identifying, especially if it's your main number. You should avoid giving out your real phone number if you can, but don't use a fake one that you can't receive SMS from; you might need to use the number later for account verification. You might consider purchasing a VOIP (Voice Over Internet Protocol) service, or utilize a phone number aliasing service.
```

---
title: "Account Creation"
icon: 'material/account-plus'
---

> Whenever you have to create a new account for a service you are required to read it's Terms of Service(ToS), Privacy Policy, choose an authentication method and, sometimes, give personal informations. Most of the time people create their account as fast as possible, meaning it's easy to overlook something.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Many people create new accounts for services without thinking much about it, but this can lead to privacy issues down the line. It's very easy to make a new account, but it can be difficult or even impossible to delete it (and any personal information associated with it) at a later point. Every extra account can be compromised as well, which could lead to private data being exposed or actions being performed on your behalf that you don't want. This is why you should be very careful and deliberate when signing up for any new account, especially something that you don't necessarily need.
```

## Terms of Service & Privacy Policy

> Terms of Service(ToS) and Privacy Policy are one of the most ignored aspect when creating a new account. They are, respectively, the legal agreements and legal documents that you must agree to in order to use a service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Terms of Service(ToS) and Privacy Policy are two of the most ignored aspects of creating a new account. The ToS are the rules that you agree to follow when using the service. Breaking them could result in account termination or other action, so it's important to be familiar with them. The Privacy Policy is how the service will use your data. Sometimes critical privacy issues can be hidden here, so you should take the time to read it. A company or organization might not be legally obligated to follow everything in it; you should check your local laws and see what they legally must do to protect your data, or what data they might be legally required to collect.
```

> Both of them are usually tedious to read and most of the time people just accept them without reading them. Right now not much can be done to avoid it and we advise to have a look at them, some services provide simplified versions. ToS are the terms you are required to abide by meanwhile the Privacy Policy describes how your data will be collected, managed and used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Before accepting them try to look up for keywords like data collection, data analysis, cookies, ads or 3rd-party services. Sometimes you will be able to opt-out from data collection or sharing but it is best to choose a service that respects your privacy from the start.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before accepting them try to look for keywords like data collection, data analysis, cookies, ads or 3rd-party services. Sometimes you will be able to opt-out from data collection or sharing but it is best to choose a service that respects your privacy from the start.
```

## Authentication methods

> Remember to organize your logins credentials so you won't accidentaly create multiple accounts on the same service with different methods.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are usually multiple ways to sign up for an account, each with their own benefits and drawbacks.
```

### Email and password

The classic way to create a new account is by email and password. When choosing this method, you should use a password manager and follow [best practices](passwords-overview.md) regarding passwords.

!!! tip

>     You can use your password manager to organize other authentication methods too! Just add the new entry and fill the appropriate fields, add notes if it helps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    You can use your password manager to organize other authentication methods too! Just add the new entry and fill the appropriate fields, you can add notes for things like security questions or a backup key.
```

> You will retain all the login credentials and it's up to you to manage them. For added security setup [MFA](multi-factor-authentication.md) to your accounts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You will be responsible for managing your login credentials. For added security, you can set up [MFA](multi-factor-authentication.md) on your accounts.
```

[Recommended password managers](../passwords.md){ .md-button }

#### Email aliases

> Sometimes when you don't want to use your real email address for a service you have the option to use an alias. We described them in more details on our email services recommendation page, basically you can use a generated email to create the account and every email that it recives will be forwarded to your real email address.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sometimes when you may not want to use your real email address for a service you have the option to use an alias. We described them in more detail on our email services recommendation page. Essentially, alias services allow you to generate new email addresses that forward all emails to your main address. This can help prevent tracking across services and help you manage the torrent of marketing emails that sometimes comes with the sign up process.
```

> This way you gain more privacy and security from hiding your real email address plus the additional aliasing features.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

[Recommended email aliasing services](../email.md#email-aliasing-services){ .md-button }

> ### Single sign-on
> 
> !!! note
>   
>     We are discussing Single sign-on for private users, not enterprises.
> 
> Single sign-on(SSO) is an authentication method that allows you to register to a service without sharing much information, if any. Whenever you see on a registration form "Sign-in with *provider name*" it's SSO.
> 
> When you choose single sign-on in a website it will prompt your SSO provider login page and after that your account will be connected, your password won't be shared but some basic information will (you can review them during the login request). This process is needed everytime you want to login to the same account.
> 
> The main advantages are:
> 
> - **Security**: no risk of beign involved in a [data breach](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Data_breach) because the website do not store your credentials;
> - **Ease of use**: multiple accounts managed by a single login.
> 
> But there are disadvantages:
> 
> - **Privacy**: a single provider will know the services you use;
> - **Centralization**: if your SSO account get compromised so do all the services you connected to it.
> 
> Single sign-on can be especially useful in those situations where you could benefit on a deeper integration between services, for example, one of those services may offer SSO for the others. Our recommendation is to limit SSO only where you need it and protect the main account with [MFA](multi-factor-authentication.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Single sign-on

!!! note
  
    We are discussing Single sign-on for personal use, not enterprise users.

Single sign-on(SSO) is an authentication method that allows you to register for a service without sharing much information, if any. Whenever you see on a registration form "Sign-in with *provider name*" it's SSO.

When you choose single sign-on in a website, it will prompt your SSO provider login page and after that your account will be connected. Your password won't be shared but some basic information will (you can review it during the login request). This process is needed every time you want to login to the same account.

The main advantages are:

- **Security**: no risk of beign involved in a [data breach](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Data_breach) because the website does not store your credentials;
- **Ease of use**: multiple accounts are managed by a single login.

But there are disadvantages:

- **Privacy**: a single provider will know the services you use;
- **Centralization**: if your SSO account get compromised so do all the services you connected to it.

SSO can be especially useful in those situations where you could benefit from deeper integration between services. For example, one of those services may offer SSO for the others. Our recommendation is to limit SSO to only where you need it and protect the main account with [MFA](multi-factor-authentication.md).
```

### Phone number

Most of the time your phone number is an available option by services that rely on communications, like messagging apps. Other authentication methods would be preferred, if available, since it's harder to protect your identity or avoid [spam](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Spamming) with a phone number, especially in case of a [data breach](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Data_breach).

### Username and password

> Some services allow you to register without using an email address and all you need is a username and a password; with this method your account would be anonymous but it would be more difficult to recover.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some services allow you to register without using an email address and all you need is a username and a password; with this method your account will be anonymous but it will be more difficult to recover.
```

---
title: "Account Creation"
icon: 'material/account-plus'
---

Often people create new accounts for services without thinking much about whether they need this product in their life or they're in a hurry and don't read the Privacy Policy. Later on they may become aware of the issues they previously overlooked, or the product changes owner and the Privacy Policy changes entirely.

> There are risks associated with every new service that you use, (such as vulnerabilities, or being hacked) which is why we don't recommend storing valuable data on anything but the most mature and battle-tested products. That usually means services which provide E2EE and have undergone a cryptographic audit. An audit increases assurance that the product was designed without glaring security issues caused by an inexperienced developer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are risks associated with every new service that you use. Data breaches; disclosure of customer information to third parties; rogue employees accessing data; all are possibilities that must be considered when giving your information out. You need to be confident that you can trust the service, which is why we don't recommend storing valuable data on anything but the most mature and battle-tested products. That usually means services which provide E2EE and have undergone a cryptographic audit. An audit increases assurance that the product was designed without glaring security issues caused by an inexperienced developer.
```

It can also be difficult to delete the accounts on some services. Sometimes [overwriting data](account-deletion.en.md#overwriting-account-information) associated with an account can be possible, but in other cases the service will keep an entire history of changes to the account.

## Terms of Service & Privacy Policy

> The ToS are the rules that you agree to follow when using the service. With larger services these rules are often enforced by automated systems. Sometimes these automated systems can make mistakes such as if the account is new, you use a VPN or a phone number not tied to a real mobile service (such as a virtual number). Appealing such bans is often difficult, and involves an automated process too, which isn't always successful. This would be one of the reasons why we wouldn't suggest using Gmail for email as an example. Email is crucial for access to other services you might have signed up for.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ToS are the rules that you agree to follow when using the service. With larger services these rules are often enforced by automated systems. Sometimes these automated systems can make mistakes. For example, you may be banned or locked out of your account on some services for using a VPN or VOIP number. Appealing such bans is often difficult, and involves an automated process too, which isn't always successful. This would be one of the reasons why we wouldn't suggest using Gmail for email as an example. Email is crucial for access to other services you might have signed up for.
```

The Privacy Policy is how the service says they will use your data and it is worth reading so that you understand how your data will be used. A company or organization might not be legally obligated to follow everything contained in the policy (it depends on the jurisdiction). We would recommend having some idea what your local laws are and what they permit a provider to collect.

We recommend looking for particular terms such as "data collection", "data analysis", "cookies", "ads" or "3rd-party" services. Sometimes you will be able to opt-out from data collection or from sharing your data, but it is best to choose a service that respects your privacy from the start.

You also also placing your trust in the company or organization to actually comply with their own privacy policy.

## Authentication methods

There are usually multiple ways to sign up for an account, each with their own benefits and drawbacks.

### Email and password

> The classic way to create a new account is by an email address and password. When choosing this method, you should use a password manager and follow [best practices](passwords-overview.md) regarding passwords.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The most common way to create a new account is by an email address and password. When using this method, you should use a password manager and follow [best practices](passwords-overview.md) regarding passwords.
```

!!! tip

    You can use your password manager to organize other authentication methods too! Just add the new entry and fill the appropriate fields, you can add notes for things like security questions or a backup key.

You will be responsible for managing your login credentials. For added security, you can set up [MFA](multi-factor-authentication.md) on your accounts.

[Recommended password managers](../passwords.md){ .md-button }

#### Email aliases

> Sometimes you may not want to use your real email address for a service, you have the option to use an alias. We described them in more detail on our email services recommendation page. Essentially, alias services allow you to generate new email addresses that forward all emails to your main address. This can help prevent tracking across services and help you manage the marketing emails that sometimes comes with the sign up process. Those can be filtered automatically based on the alias they are sent to.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you don't want to give your real email address to a service, you have the option to use an alias. We described them in more detail on our email services recommendation page. Essentially, alias services allow you to generate new email addresses that forward all emails to your main address. This can help prevent tracking across services and help you manage the marketing emails that sometimes come with the sign up process. Those can be filtered automatically based on the alias they are sent to.
```

> Should a service get hacked and not notify you it is possible you might receive phishing emails. Using unique aliases for each service can assist in identifying exactly what service was hacked.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Should a service get hacked, you might start receiving phishing or spam emails to the address you used to sign up. Using unique aliases for each service can assist in identifying exactly what service was hacked.
```

[Recommended email aliasing services](../email.md#email-aliasing-services){ .md-button }

### Single sign-on

!!! note
  
    We are discussing Single sign-on for personal use, not enterprise users.

Single sign-on (SSO) is an authentication method that allows you to register for a service without sharing much information, if any. Whenever you see something along the lines of "Sign-in with *provider name*" on a registration form it's SSO.

> When you choose single sign-on in a website, it will prompt your SSO provider login page and after that your account will be connected. Your password won't be shared but some basic information will (you can review it during the login request). This process is needed every time you want to login to the same account.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you choose single sign-on in a website, it will prompt your SSO provider login page and after that your account will be connected. Your password won't be shared but some basic information will (you can review it during the login request). This process is needed every time you want to log in to the same account.
```

SSO can be especially useful in those situations where you could benefit from deeper integration between services. For example, one of those services may offer SSO for the others. Our recommendation is to limit SSO to only where you need it and protect the main account with [MFA](multi-factor-authentication.md).

All services that use SSO will be as secure as your SSO account. For example, if you want to secure an account with a hardware key but that service doesn't support hardware keys, you can secure your SSO account with a hardware key and now you essentially have hardware MFA on all your accounts. It is worth noting though that weak authentication on your SSO account means that any account tied to that login will also be weak.

### Phone number

We recommend avoiding services that require a phone number for sign up. A phone number can identity you across multiple services and depending on data sharing agreements this will make your usage easier to track, particularly if one of those services is breached as the phone number is often **not** encrypted.

> You should avoid giving out your real phone number if you can. Some services will allow the use of virtual numbers, (VOIP numbers), however these often trigger fraud detection systems, causing an account to be locked down, so we don't recommend that for accounts with a lot of importance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You should avoid giving out your real phone number if you can. Some services will allow the use of VOIP numbers, however these often trigger fraud detection systems, causing an account to be locked down, so we don't recommend that for important accounts.
```

> A phone number often needs to be a real number, (not a fake one), particularly when shopping internationally, in case there is a problem with your order at border screening or the service checks the number during the sign up work flow such as to receive a SMS verification token.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In many cases you will need to provide a number that you can receive SMS or calls from, particularly when shopping internationally, in case there is a problem with your order at border screening. It's common for services to use your number as a verification method; don't let yourself get locked out of an important account because you wanted to be clever and give a fake number!
```

### Username and password

> Some services allow you to register without using an email address and only require you to set a username and password. These services may provide increased anonymity when combined with a VPN or Tor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some services allow you to register without using an email address and only require you to set a username and password. These services may provide increased anonymity when combined with a VPN or Tor. Keep in mind that for these accounts there will most likely be **no way to recover your account** in the event you forget your username or password.
```

icon: 'material/account-plus'
---

Often people create new accounts for services without thinking much about whether they need this product in their life or they're in a hurry and don't read the Privacy Policy. Later on they may become aware of the issues they previously overlooked, or the product changes owner and the Privacy Policy changes entirely.

> There are risks associated with every new service that you use, (such as vulnerabilities, or being hacked), which is why we don't recommend storing valuable data on anything but the most mature and battle-tested products. That usually means services which provide E2EE and have undergone a cryptographic audit. An audit increases assurance that the product was designed without glaring security issues caused by an inexperienced developer.

Author: > , (such as vulnerabilities, or being hacked),

You should use either brackets or commas.

Reviewer 2: Removed comma after bracket.

It can also be difficult to delete the accounts on some services. Sometimes [overwriting data](account-deletion.en.md#overwriting-account-information) associated with an account can be possible, but in other cases the service will keep an entire history of changes to the account.

## Terms of Service & Privacy Policy

> The ToS (Terms of Service) are the rules that you agree to follow when using the service. With larger services these rules are often enforced by automated systems. Sometimes these automated systems can make mistakes such as if the account is new, you use a VPN or a phone number not tied to a real mobile service (such as a virtual number). Appealing such bans is often difficult, and involves an automated process too, which isn't always successful. This would be one of the reasons why we wouldn't suggest using Gmail for email as an example. Email is crucial for access to other services you might have signed up for.

Author: > ToS (Terms of Service)

It's best to put the abbreviation inside the brackets .

> if the account is new

I don't think this is relevant. You can break ToS at any time, not just with new accounts.

Reviewer 2: It is, because you may not necessarily break the ToS, but can still have accounts locked, due to them being new, using a VPN, or using VOIP numbers.

These are all things often "recommended" by the privacy community for "privacy".

## Terms of Service(ToS)

> Terms of Service(ToS) are one of the most ignored aspect when creating a new account. They are the legal agreements in order to use the service and also include how your data will be used, often referred to as the **Privacy Policy**.

Author: I thought it was part of the ToS it's just different document, [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Terms_of_service#Content) also says so. ToS are the legal agreements and the Privacy Policy is a legal document. Perhaps someone with a legal background can clarify this point.

> Terms of Service(ToS) are one of the most ignored aspect when creating a new account. They are the legal agreements in order to use the service and also include how your data will be used, often referred to as the **Privacy Policy**.

Author: To avoid any confusion I can talk about it separately but I still think that it's part of the ToS. It is a separate document for easier access, following GDPR rules. If you have a look at some ToS privacy section you can find links to the Privacy Policy.

All the websites I checked asked you to accept the ToS and only sometimes they mentioned the PP during registration. You do not accept the PP, only the ToS. So if I accept the ToS I also accept the PP but not vice versa.

For example ProtonMail ToS says _"...By agreeing to the present Terms and to be able to use the Services, you also agree to our Privacy Policy."_ and inside the Privacy Policy _"...This privacy policy is to be read and understood as being a complement to our [terms of service](https://proton.me/legal/terms)."_

> Terms of Service(ToS) are one of the most ignored aspect when creating a new account. They are the legal agreements in order to use the service and also include how your data will be used, often referred to as the **Privacy Policy**.

Author: I think we are both missing something here, I do agree that consent must be given. 
The way it's given is different form website to website. Some ask only for ToS, some for ToS and tell you to read the PP(linked in the form or inside the ToS), others want you to accept everything(ToS, PP, cookies...). I found a few, like banks, that you need to give consent on each type of data process.

The [European Commission website](https://ec.europa.eu/info/law/law-topic/data-protection/reform/rules-business-and-organisations_en) has a lot of guidelines on how to implement GDPR, including consent for data collection, but there is a lot to unwarp here. Maybe someone will chime in to help us understand.

To avoid getting too much off topic I think it would be a good choice to discuss ToS and PP separately in this page and advise users to read both.

> Terms of Service(ToS) are one of the most ignored aspect when creating a new account. They are the legal agreements in order to use the service and also include how your data will be used, often referred to as the **Privacy Policy**.

Reviewer 3: Typically the Terms of Service are things _you are agreeing to do_ when using a site, and the Privacy Policies is _the site agreeing_ to only do certain things with the data you give it. I think I agree with just discussing both of them independently of each other.
